Author - Alec Thompson - ajthompson@wpi.edu
Author - Troy Hughes - thhughes@wpi.edu
Class - CS2303 - Systems Programming Concepts
Assignment - Program 5 - A Simulation of MANET Source Routing in C++
Language - C++

How To Build - 
	Enter the following into terminal:
		
		make && make clean

	This will result in an executable under the name of program5

	NOTE: A compiler warning about a double being cast to an integer will occur.  This is
	because we make use of the <cmath> function pow, which only operates on doubles in versions
	of C++ earlier than C++11.

	We cast integer values to doubles in the function that uses this, and the result gets cast
	back to an integer.  This was necessary to ensure compatibility with the woefully outdated
	version of gcc on all but one of the CCC servers.  Why they would update only one is beyond
	us...

How To Run -
	Enter the following into terminal:

		./program5 sources receivers mules dimension < input.txt

	Where the fields are as follows:

		sources - number of source routers
		receivers - number of receiver routers
		mules - number of mule routers - MUST BE A MULTIPLE OF 4
		dimension - one side of the square area a mule maneuvers on - MUST BE GREATER THAN BOTH
		THE NUMBER OF SOURCES AND RECEIVERS

		input.txt - text file of data in the following format

			sourceID arrival_time packets pkt_size SR_size SR

		Where the fields are as follows:

			sourceID - ID of the source this applies to
			arrival_time - time the source begins transmitting
			packets - number of packets to be transmitted
			pkt_size - size of the packets to be transmitted
			SR_size - length of the route the packets will take, including the source
			SR - list of sourceIDs of length SR_size starting with the source node and ending
			with a receiver node

		The number of lines of text in the file must be no more than the number of fields, and
		there must be no more than one line with the same sourceID

Program Notes:
	
	Main: 
		Reads in the arguments, and uses three methods to create the randomized positions for
		the sources receivers and nodes. Then the program creates the event list, initialized
		with the command line arguments.  After this, the method process() is called on the
		event list. This function controls the entirety of the rest of the program.

	EventList:
		This class contains all of the information relevant to the program. It contains the
		field to be displayed, vectors containing the sources, receivers, and nodes, and
		pointers to the list of events itself. The class constructor sets up the entire
		simulation, and then the process() function runs the simulation.

		When the simulation completes, it prints the statistics each receiver has gathered as
		well as the overall average packet delay.  For the receiver statistics, if the receiver
		has received no packets from a particular sender, then all sender specific statistics,
		including that sender's id will be listed as -1, indicating that there is no data
		present.

		Then, the final layout of the mule array will be printed.

		One particular design quirk to note is that we have separated the propagation events
		from the transmitting node.  We transfer the pointer to the propagating packet to the
		event object itself, instead of keeping it tied to the sender.

		Event types -
			Sender Initialization - At the time specified by the Sender's arrival time,
			enqueues a new packet and creates a transmission event, as well as calculating the
			propagation time of the first packet and storing it within the packet's delay
			field.

				This event contains the event type, a pointer to initializing sender, and the
				time remaining until the event occurs.

			Transmission End - There are two versions of this event, T_END_FROM_S for Senders,
			and T_END_FROM_M for Mules.  Both dequeue the packet from the transmitting router,
			and create a propagation event based off of the pointer to the packet and it's
			propagation delay, and a pointer to its targer router, either a mule or a
			receiver. Then the mule transmission is complete. The sender however, then
			decrements the amount of packets remaining to be transmitting, and if the number
			is still greater than zero, enqueues another packet. If the number of packets
			still to be transmitted is 0, the sender is deleted.

				This event contains the event type, a pointer to either the transmitting
				sender or the transmitting mule, and the amount of time remaining until the
				transmission is complete.

			Propagation End - This event has two versions as well, P_END_TO_M for propagation
			to mules, and P_END_TO_R, for propagation to receivers.  For mules, the contained
			packet is enqueued in the target node, a new propagation delay is calculated, and
			a new transmission event is created. For receivers, the packet is passed to a
			function called on the contained pointer to a receiver that strips the packet of
			the information relevant to the receiver's statistics, and the statistics are
			updated. The packet is then deleted.

				This event contains the event type, a pointer to either the receiving mule or
				the receiving receiver, a pointer to the propagating packet, and the time
				remaining until the propagation is complete.

			Mule Movement - This event iterates through the list of mules, moves them using a
			function contained in the mule class, and then prints the field.

	Randomization Methods - Are a set of functions that 2 two types of randomization. First is in the 
	Senders and Receivers. In the Senders and Receivers there are static methods that create a list of 
	all the possible values that a Sender or Receiver could have (different for the senders and the receiver). 
	For the senders, they're always planted on the x=0 wall, while having varrying y values. The receiver is 
	similar, with the exception that their x values are set to the length of the field + 1 (because of 0 indexing). 
	The randomization methods create a list of all the possible values, 0 -> max_length - 1 and then they 
	perform a 'shuffle' on the list. This 'shuffle' is called a Fisher-Yates shuffle. This takes the fianite
	set of values that we have, and puts them in a random order by indexing through the list and replacing
	the ith value with a random value in the list (the best and simplest example of randomness that we could create).
	The mules do a very similar setup, except for they have an x and a y value that are random. This creates a 
	much larger subset of possible values - it also creates the idea that there could be more mules 
	than the value of the height of the field. In this scenario we have to ensure that the mules are 
	able to exist in not only random x,y points, such that there are no doubles, but we also can allow 
	one of the two values to be the same in the point, but not both. In this scenario, after all the x
	and y values are shuffled (again using a fisher yates shuffle) the mules go through and select a constant
	x point and a random y point - compare this to a static list of points that other mules are using, and if both 
	points are picked, it goes through and picks again. This setup is an improvement on how the program ran 
	for smashball, where there had to always be a square field, and the number of players had to be less than
	the length of any size of the field. 
 

	Senders - Are essentially a queue plus more stuff.  They contain the the sender's x and y
	positions, source id, arrival time, the number of packets to be send, and the packet size
	of the packets to be sent.  There are also four static fields, for the total number of
	senders, the dimension of the field, and the possible x and y positions for the senders.
	These static fields are used in the randomization, explained in the randomization section.
	Senders also include pointers to the heads and tails of two queues.  The first is a queue
	of nodes, containing the SR values that the packets sent by this router will follow.

	Mules - Contain a queue of packets, an id, and a location on the field. They use a simple location checking
	setup (identical to smashball) that checks what is around them and moves accordingly. They autoupdate their locaiton
	in a statically shared list to allow for easy access to the data where all the mules are located. 

	Receivers - Are simple math calculation, and data storing objects. Upon construction, they initialize a number
	of lists to be the length of the number of senders that there are. From here, we focus on adding data
	to them by passing a pointer to a packet to the receiver. From here, it strips the data needed from 
	the packet, and runs calculations based off the past data it has and the data it just got. 
	Receiver setup is written such that we could have implemented a static background method that kept track of 
	rolling overall calculations etc. But, we chose not to do this, because static methods and fields were 
	driving us crazy with weird errors.  

	Packets - Packets contain the source id of the sender that sent them, the timestamp
	representing the time that the packet was created, the size of the packet, and delay. 
	Delay was originally intended to store the delay when we planned on just enqueuing all
	received packets at a receiver, and processing them at the end of the program. However,
	when when we switched to immediate processing upon reception, the delay field was
	maintained as way to store the packet's propagation time between it's calculation at the
	creation of a transmission event, and it's use at the creation of a propagation event. The
	packet also contains pointers to the head and tail of a queue of nodes, containing the
	path the packet has remaining to route through, as well as a pointer to the next packet in
	the queue the packet itself is currently in.

	Nodes - Nodes are used to represent the SR queue, and contain an integer representing a
	value in the SR queue, and a pointer to the next node in the queue.

	Field - The field is an abstract used only for printing. It is a two dimensional vector
	with a with of DIMENSION + 2, where DIMENSION is the dimension command line argument, and
	a height of DIMENSION. This vector is initialized to 0 for all values.

		Setting/clearing positions - After all senders, receivers, and mules are created, a
		function in eventList iterates through the vectors of each of them and calls the
		function setPos on the field. This function sets a given (x,y) position to a given
		value, and if no value is given it sets the position to 0.

		Printing parametets - using the total number of routers, the program calculates a
		value maxDigits that is the number of digits necessary to display the number of
		routers. This ensures the width of the field is correct up to 99999 routers (though it
		would take only a couple minutes to add support for up to 6-digit router IDs).

		The resulting field looks something like this, given 20 sources, 12 receivers, 16
		mules, and a dimension of 36:

		